# NBA-Best

The application NBA Best looks at NBA player statistics and salaries to put together a 5-man roster based on user input for variables such as number of players at each position, budget, and player statistic priorities.

# Data Acquisition
We used the Beautiful Soup python library to parse data from the website "HoopsHype" for salary and player statistics for all NBA players in the year 2021-2022. If a player has salary information for the 2022-2023 basketball season, we also collected this information.

# Model Function
To find the best lineup based on the user's inputs, the model first finds the highest value for each statistic per position. The model then normalizes all of the statistics based on the maximum value for that statistic by player position. The statistics used in the model are average Points, True Two Point Percentage, True Three Point Percentage, Free Throw Percentage, Defensive Rebounding, Offensive Rebounding, Assist to Turnover Ratio, Steals, and Blocks per game. All of these variables were pulled directly from the data source with the exceptions of the Assist to Turnover Ratio and the point percentage variables. The model uses the Assist and Turnover variables from the data source to calculate the Assist to Turnover Ratio. The model also calculates the True Two Point Percentage, True Three Point Percentage, and Free Throw Percentage values by multiplying the player's average for that type of shot by the player's attempted number of that type of shots, which are variables that come directly from the data source. The model then finds all of the different possible combinations of five players based on the players' positions and different numbers of players at each position. Finally, the model goes through the top 40 players at each position and selects the five best lineups from all the different player combinations based on the user's inputs regarding number of players at each position, budget, and the weight the user gives to each statistic. If no lineup is found, the user will be told to change the inputs.

# User Interaction
To create his lineup, the user will first be prompted to put in the number of guards, forwards, and centers he would like on his team. He can put up to five players at any position, but the total number of players at the three positions must add up to five. The user will then be prompted to put in which year he would like to look at for the players' salaries (2021-2022 or 2022-2023) and his salary budget. After these values are inputted, the user has the option to assign a weight to each player statistic to indicate the importance the user puts on each statistic relative to the other statistics. Each weight must be a number from 0 to 10. The default weight for each statistic is 1, while a weight of 0 takes that statistic out of the model. The user can choose to press 'Enter' for each prompt instead of adding weights. Once the user is done inputting values, the model will display the five best lineups that fit the user's budget and priorities, along with the total salary cost for each lineup. In addition to the lineups, the model displays two visualizations. The first visualization is a table with the following player statistics for each player given in the five lineups: average number of points, offensive rebounds, defensive rebounds, assists, turnovers, steals, and blocks per game. If a player is in multiple lineups, he is only included on the table once. The second visualization is a scatterplot with the average number of points per game for the players from the best lineup given by the model.

# Testing
A testing file was created to test the functions in our model construction. The user can use pytest to run this file to confirm that all of the tests pass. Tests were created for the function that gets the maximum value for each statistic for each position, the functions that normalize the statistics based on the maximum value of the statistic for each position, the function that finds all of the different possible player combinations, and the function that selects the best five lineups based on the user's inputs.